Changelog 5.0.0 (#7284)
osquery/osquery: CHANGELOG.md

# osquery Changelog

<a name="5.0.2"></a>
## [5.0.2](https://github.com/osquery/osquery/releases/tag/5.0.2)

[Git Commits](https://github.com/osquery/osquery/compare/4.9.0...5.0.2)

Representing commits from 21 contributors! Thank you all.

> osquery 5.0 is a tremendously exciting release.

Author: ```suggestion
osquery 5.0 is a tremendously exciting release!
```

* We now install into /opt/osquery on macOS and Linux for better portability.
* Our default and recommended installation for macOS uses an application bundle to support entitlement-based features.

> * We now use Endpoint Security APIs for various event-based tables on macOS (more to come in the future!)

Reviewer: Specifically we can say:

"We now support process event monitoring using EndpointSecurity APIs on macOS (with more event types to come in the future!)"

> * We now use an osquery-organization macOS code signing certificate.

Reviewer: Either here or in breaking changes, "Reminder: organizations using MDM to manage osquery should note the impact of the code-signing identity change to their deployments." and a link to the docs https://osquery.readthedocs.io/en/latest/deployment/process-auditing/#automatically-granting-permissions-silent-installs

There are several breaking changes.

> * Installation paths have changes from /usr/local to /opt/osquery on macOS and Linux (symlinks to executables are provided).

Author: ```suggestion
* Installation paths have changes from `/usr/local` to `/opt/osquery` on macOS and Linux (symlinks to executables are provided).
```

> * We removed the blacklist key (#7153) in configuration, for several months the use of this key was generating a deprecation warning.

Author: ```suggestion
* We removed the deprecated `blacklist` key from the configuration (#7153)
```

Reviewer 2: https://t.me/c/1309413501/435

* Search semantics on the augeas table have changed to be more performant, but do break the existing query API.

Representing commits from 20 contributors! Thank you all.

### Table Changes

- Add `secureboot` table for Linux and Windows ([#7202](https://github.com/osquery/osquery/pull/7202))
- Add `tpm_info` for Windows ([#7107](https://github.com/osquery/osquery/pull/7107))
- Fix `osquery_info` build_platform column value on Linux ([#7254](https://github.com/osquery/osquery/pull/7254))

> - Support pid_with_namespace in more tables ([#7132](https://github.com/osquery/osquery/pull/7132))

Reviewer: nit: pid_with_namespace -> `pid_with_namespace`

Author: ```suggestion
- Support `pid_with_namespace` in more tables ([#7132](https://github.com/osquery/osquery/pull/7132))
```

- Update `augeas` table to use native pattern matching (BREAKING) ([#6982](https://github.com/osquery/osquery/pull/6982))
- Update `chrome_extensions` to include Edge & EdgeBeta ([#7170](https://github.com/osquery/osquery/pull/7170))
- Update `disk_encryption` table to support QueryContext ([#7209](https://github.com/osquery/osquery/pull/7209))
- Update `last` to include utmp type name column ([#7201](https://github.com/osquery/osquery/pull/7201))
- Update `sudoers` table to support newer include syntax ([#7185](https://github.com/osquery/osquery/pull/7185))
- Update `user_ssh_keys` to detect encryption of ed25519 keys ([#7168](https://github.com/osquery/osquery/pull/7168))

> ### Under the Hood improvements

Reviewer: nit: capitalize "Improvements"

Author: ```suggestion
### Under the Hood Improvements
```

- socket_events improvements in Linux audit system ([#7269](https://github.com/osquery/osquery/pull/7269))

### Bug Fixes

- Add case sensitive pragma to the pragma/actions authorizer allow list ([#7267](https://github.com/osquery/osquery/pull/7267))
- Add feature to skip denylist for event-based queries ([#7158](https://github.com/osquery/osquery/pull/7158))
- Change logger_mode flag to be correctly interpreted as an octal ([#7273](https://github.com/osquery/osquery/pull/7273))
- Do not let osquery create multiple copies of the extension running at once ([#7178](https://github.com/osquery/osquery/pull/7178))
- Fix Linux audit rule removal upon osquery exit ([#7221](https://github.com/osquery/osquery/pull/7221))
- Fix broadcasting empty logs to logger plugins ([#7183](https://github.com/osquery/osquery/pull/7183))
- Fix issues applying ACLs during chocolatey deployment ([#7166](https://github.com/osquery/osquery/pull/7166))
- Fix memory issue in Windows fileops ([#7179](https://github.com/osquery/osquery/pull/7179))
- Fix `process_open_sockets` type error on darwin ([#6546](https://github.com/osquery/osquery/pull/6546))

> - Make sure that the file action "MOVED_TO" is tracked with yara events. ([#7203](https://github.com/osquery/osquery/pull/7203))

Reviewer: nit: "MOVED_TO" -> `MOVED_TO`

Author: ```suggestion
- Make sure that the file action `MOVED_TO` is tracked with yara events. ([#7203](https://github.com/osquery/osquery/pull/7203))
```

> - Prevent osquery from killing itself when the --force flag is used ([#7295](https://github.com/osquery/osquery/pull/7295))

Reviewer: --force --> `--force`

Author: ```suggestion
- Prevent osquery from killing itself when the `--force` flag is used ([#7295](https://github.com/osquery/osquery/pull/7295))
```

# osquery Changelog

<a name="5.0.1"></a>
## [5.0.1](https://github.com/osquery/osquery/releases/tag/5.0.1)

[Git Commits](https://github.com/osquery/osquery/compare/4.9.0...5.0.1)

> Representing commits from 21 contributors! Thank you all.

Reviewer 3: This seems repeated below (with a different number)?

osquery 5.0 is a tremendously exciting release!
* We now install into /opt/osquery on macOS and Linux for better portability.
* Our default and recommended installation for macOS uses an application bundle to support entitlement-based features.
* We now use Endpoint Security APIs for various event-based tables on macOS (more to come in the future!)
* We now use an osquery-organization macOS code signing certificate.

There are several breaking changes:
* Installation paths have changes from `/usr/local` to `/opt/osquery` on macOS and Linux (symlinks to executables are provided).
* macOS codesigning is now down through the Osquery Foundation account
* If you manage macOS full disk permission through a profile, you will need to update it.
  See [docs](https://osquery.readthedocs.io/en/latest/deployment/process-auditing/#automatically-granting-permissions-silent-installs)
* We removed the deprecated `blacklist` key from the configuration (#7153)
* Search semantics on the augeas table have changed to be more performant, but do break the existing query API.

> Representing commits from 20 contributors! Thank you all.

Reviewer 3: Repetition? (see above)

- Update Windows deployment icon to png ([#7163](https://github.com/osquery/osquery/pull/7163))
- Update install paths, and remove deprecated Facebook naming ([#7210](https://github.com/osquery/osquery/pull/7210))
- Update macOS build to include app bundle related files ([#7184](https://github.com/osquery/osquery/pull/7184))
- Update osquery installed artifacts default paths in code ([#7285](https://github.com/osquery/osquery/pull/7285))
- Update the installation path on Linux ([#7271](https://github.com/osquery/osquery/pull/7271))
- libs: Add options to AWS Optionally enable debug option and restrict content-type header size for PUT req ([#7216](https://github.com/osquery/osquery/pull/7216))
- libs: Enable and compile the YARA macho module on macOS ([#7174](https://github.com/osquery/osquery/pull/7174))
- libs: Update OpenSSL to version 1.1.1l ([#7293](https://github.com/osquery/osquery/pull/7293))
- libs: Update Strawberry Perl to 5.32.1.1, use HTTPS downloads ([#7199](https://github.com/osquery/osquery/pull/7199))

> - libs: Update ebpfpub ([#7219](https://github.com/osquery/osquery/pull/7219))
> - libs: Update the ebpfpub library ([#7173](https://github.com/osquery/osquery/pull/7173))

Reviewer 3: Other nit: maybe collapse?

```suggestion
-libs: Updates to the ebpfpub library ([#7219](https://github.com/osquery/osquery/pull/7219), [#7173](https://github.com/osquery/osquery/pull/7173))
```
